<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="yes"?>
<Root xmlns:aid="http://ns.adobe.com/AdobeInDesign/4.0/"><h1>Chapter 1 : Getting Started</h1>
<Body><p aid:pstyle="NoIndent">I call upon chaos to create undead! Arise, my minions! Arise and slay them all!" The voice of the necromancer echoed like a funeral song through the cave, bouncing off the walls and ringing in our ears. We could not see her beyond the flickering light of our torch, and at first it seemed as though nothing had happened. I exchanged a few glances with my companions but found little confidence in their nervous expressions. Tightening my grip on my sword and drawing my shield closer to my chest, I strained my eyes to see into the pitch-black tunnel before me. Slowly, as though the noise was being dredged up from the heart of the cave, the soft sound of feet dragging along gravel and rocks being scratched sifted into our ears. I looked at my companions and saw looks of dismayed realization cross over their faces. The necromancer's spell had worked.</p>
<p>Too cowardly to handle us herself she had desecrated the bodies of the dead and reanimated them to serve her. If we had known any of these people in life, they were unrecognizable now. As they lurched slowly into the circle of light around us I heard a few of my comrades gasp in horror at their appearances, and I could hardly blame them. Decayed flesh hung off the bones of the undead, displaying their ivory white bones and the remains of their innards. Though their eyes had rotted away long ago they still seemed to see us through their empty sockets.</p>
<p>Gritting my teeth, I stepped forward, determined to get rid of these monsters. The undead nearest to me swung a stone mace at my chest, but I blocked it deftly with my shield and hacked him in two with a swipe of my sword. Undead were not difficult opponents, their brains are too rotted and maggot-ridden to direct their actions, but that was not what made them such terrifying opponents. While there were only a small handful of us in the cave, the undead could be as numerous as the necromancer desired. She only had to animate more of the corpses she had dredged up and send them in our direction. It was unlikely a single undead would fell one of us in combat, but a horde of them could overwhelm our party in no time. </p>
<p>I tried to conserve my energy, for the darkness hid just how many she had sent to assault us. Beside me my friends were doing the same, but it was clear we could not fight forever. The undead moved with uneven steps toward us with the tireless energy of the afterlife. I suddenly froze as I heard someone cry out in pain. Peering around wildly, I saw that one of the undead had managed to latch its claws into the left arm of our rogue, Ivan. He managed to fight it off before it did him any more harm, but it was clear his arm was too mangled to be of any use now.</p>
<p>"Don't worry, I'll take care of him." Erin, our healer, said before she swept quickly over to Ivan, who was cradling his arm unhappily against his chest. I had no time to thank her, for without Ivan holding one end of the line the undead were beginning to push us back. I managed to cut several more to pieces before one with a significant amount of muscle left undecayed on its form shoved me to the ground. My weapon clattered loudly onto the stone floor beside me and as I looked from it to my opponent I could see there would be no time to recover it before the undead would be upon me.</p>
<p>“I call forth a flame bolt 20!" Shouted Kryssa, our celestial scholar, and I found myself sighing quietly with relief as the undead leering over me was incinerated by her spell. The stream of fire illuminated the cave briefly as it left her hands and I glimpsed a pale face glaring hatefully at me from across the room. As the room faded to darkness once more I was suddenly grasped with comprehension. It was the necromancer!</p>
<p>“She's here, only a few yards away!" I cried, grabbing my sword and leaping to my feet. The sound of footsteps announced the necromancer had heard my call and, alarmed, began to flee. Determined not to let her escape I attacked her small army with renewed vigor. Anything my blade did not manage to slice in two was swiftly turned to ash by Kryssa's magic. Soon the undead lay at our feet, at peace once more. I lunged forward to pursue the cause of this mess but felt a hand firmly grasping my upper arm. Irritated, I swung around and found Kryssa holding onto me.</p>
<p>“We can't leave those two behind," She said, nodding at the other end of the tunnel, where Erin was still tending carefully to Ivan's wound. “We wiped out everything she tried to throw at us," the woman added reassuringly, “She won't be coming back to bother the people around here again, because she knows we'll be here waiting."</p>
<p>Still eager to chase down our foe, but seeing the sense in her words, I nodded and began to walk back to our other two comrades. The necromancer had escaped, but we were confident this was one village she would never torment again.</p>
<h3>Where fantasy becomes a reality…</h3>
<p aid:pstyle="NoIndent">NERO, an acronym that stands for the New England Role-playing Organization, allows you to play a character in a live action fantasy adventure. Under NERO's unique rule system, people gather to populate an entire fantasy medieval town.</p>
<p>In the NERO game, you create a character concept for a fantasy story and actually play the character. It is much like improvisational theater in that you have a framework created by the props and supporting characters and must develop your part as you progress through the storyline. Your character's attitudes, ambitions, and history are yours to define.</p
<p>If the adventurous life is your calling, you may play the part of a wanderer, meeting with some friends in the tavern. While swapping tales, your party could get hired by a poor farmer in desperate straits, and spend the afternoon slaying a foul necromancer and his undead abominations.</p
<p>If the epic life is not your style, then you can play the part of a town merchant. You can make your money selling your wares and information for the right price. Or perhaps you wish to be one who investigates the magical arts, selling your scrolls and potions to earn the money you need to continue your studies. Or would you rather try to become the leader of the Mages' Guild? The choice is yours.</p>
<p>NERO is dedicated to the legendary days of high fantasy, while running a fun (and above all safe) game. We have fierce warriors, crafty scouts, powerful mages, loyal knights, and benevolent healers. There are smelly goblins, blood-chilling specters, evil necromancers, and villainous spies to fight, and your very own legends to create.</p>
<h3>How NERO Works</h3> 
<p>In NERO, a cast of non-player characters (NPCs) are used to set the tone and provide background for the player characters (PCs). They may serve important town functions (such as Guild leaders or high plot and action. Much of what happens at an event, however, is completely decided by the players.</p>
<p>NERO uses padded weapons to simulate actual combat, and a magic system that uses packets made of fabric and bird seed to represent the hurling of spells. Mock (and sometimes real) armor and other costumes are used to enhance the atmosphere. </p>
<p>There are many types of NERO events. The most common are day events, weekend events, and long events. Each type of event runs non-stop from start to completion. Day events start and end on the same day and may last for 8 or more hours. A day event is usually composed of a single scenario (module) and may be very linear in nature. Weekend events run from Friday night to Sunday morning/afternoon. Long events are any event that runs longer than a weekend event. The most common long event lasts for 4 days (Friday to Monday), but it is not unheard of for a long event to last for 9 or more consecutive days. Weekend and long events are composed of collections of modules with multiple plot-lines and bring to life a medieval town with all its inhabitants and intrigues. There is nothing to compare with the feeling of playing for 24 hours a day along with possibly hundreds of other players, each with their own desires, fears, and aspirations.
<p>It sounds simple, but when you are in the middle of a dungeon with shadowy shapes moving towards you in the darkness and strange sounds echoing down the halls, trying to remember what that fellow in the tavern said a half hour ago about how to get through this infernal door, your perspective on the difficulty of the situation may change.
<p>As you play your character, you will gain abilities and influence, and may one day gain a noble title or great fame and wealth. Tales of your adventures may someday be sung by bards, or retold time and again by storytellers sitting by the fire with a cup of spiced cider.
<p>What your character does is entirely up to you. You decide what you want and where you want to be. The future is yours to define and create.
<p>The 4 Most Important Rules
<p>This book has many rules and requirements and for new players it can sometimes be overwhelming. There are some rules that are much more important than the others. The rules listed below are required for NERO to continue to be a safe game, and there are no exceptions to these rules—they apply to all players and NPCs. Breaking these rules may require your removal from the game.
<p>The Body Contact Rule: NERO prohibits all body contact during combat. All combat must take place with NERO approved safe weapons, and certain parts of the body (head, groin, hands) are not allowed to be hit, even with these NERO safe weapons. This rule does not apply to packet delivered attacks, which may hit any part of the body.
<p>The Alcohol Rule:NERO absolutely forbids alcohol and illegal drugs at its events, and you are not permitted to use these off site and then come to the game drunk or high.
<p>The Hold Rule:If you hear someone yell “Hold!" stop everything you are doing and drop to one knee. Holds should only be called if there is a real need, and usually only for safety reasons. You cannot call a hold to check on a rule, or ask if someone knows that you hit them with a spell or ability, unless that rule or effect is so integral to the situation that it would affect every person involved in that situation.
<p>The Sneaking Rule:If you wish to sneak into a building or tent (regardless of whether you are sleeping in that building or tent for the event), you must have a marshal present. This rule helps ensure that out-of-game items (the personal property of other players) are not accidentally taken if your character chooses to steal items from another player's building or tent.
<p>Please follow these rules completely and report anyone who does not to a marshal.
<p>An Introduction to the Rules
<p>A lot of what you will read in the upcoming pages may be confusing; there seems to be a lot of rules, and some rules rely on other rules to a degree that understanding one is not possible until you understand the other—but how can you do both at the same time? Don't be discouraged. It's really a lot easier than it seems. There is also a quick character generation guide at the back of the book.
<p>A basic overview to get you started:
<p>You, the player, will portray a character for the duration of the event. Your character has certain skills. Some of these are usable whenever you'd like (such as your skill in a specific weapon) and some are usable a limited number of times per day (like the ability to cast a spell). In order to learn more skills, or to be able to cast a large number of spells per day, you will have to gain experience. 
<p>You gain experience by attending events. The amount of experience you earn is based on whether you PC or NPC. If you PC you will receive a base amount of experience that you can then double in a number of different ways. You may turn in game money at the end of the event, perform a number of hours of NPC duty (if the chapter allows this), or the chapter may grant all PCs double experience just for attending the event. If you NPC the entire event you will receive the maximum possible amount of experience as a reward for your service.
<p>Awarded Experience Points (XP) are then transferred into Build Points (BP). Build Points are what you use to buy new skills. Every 10 BP you earn increases your level. The amount of XP needed to earn a new Build Point increase each time your level increases, so the higher level you become, the slower you gain new skills.
<p>Your character must be one of the currently allowed races, such as Human, Elf, Dwarf, or Sarr. For a complete list of races and their advantages and disadvantages, see the Classes and Races section in this rule book.
<p>Your character also has a specific class which determines the number of BP that a skill will cost, the total number of Armor Points you can wear to start, and the number of body points that you gain per level. 
<p>Sometimes you will get into battles. When swinging a weapon, you will call out the amount of damage your weapon will do.
<p>A standard long sword does 2 points of damage. When you get hit, you will subtract from your Armor Points and your Body Points until you are at zero or below. Your opponent will do the same. 
<p>Spells may be cast during battles and they can affect the battle in many ways. You need to know the spells in order to get the most out of your NERO experience. Spells are represented by foam golf or tennis balls purchasable at most sporting good stores, or small cloth packets filled with birdseed that you can make yourself. You must say the specific words (incantation) associated with the spell (such as “With mystic force I web you!") and hit your target with the spell aura for the spell to work.
<p>You may have tags or a character skill sheet which you use to keep track of your current Body Points, Armor Points, skills and spells. After each battle, you and your opponents must adjust the tags to keep track of your new status. 
<p>Now let's look at a typical NERO weekend and see how some of these rules are applied.
<p>Your First Weekend
<p>Here's an example of a typical NERO weekend as experienced by a new player (You!): 
<p>Once you have your character established, you check in for a NERO event. You are given a small amount of starting money tags representing your starting equipment and a character card which lists your current skills and other pertinent information. You will get a new card for every event in order to keep this information accurate and up to date. This allows you, other characters, and the game marshals to keep track of your abilities should any disputes arise. You will also receive either tags for each of your abilities or a character skill sheet.
<p>You also have to get your weapon checked. Even players who attend every event must get their weapons checked each time. If your weapon is approved, you are given a safety tag that is attached to your weapon. If you do not have one already, you are given a cabin assignment. Once you have finished checking in to the event, you put on a white headband (signifying that you are out-of-game) and carry your bedding and other equipment to your room. You are then ready to get into your costume. 
<p>One thing you notice is that everyone in the NERO game wears a costume. The type of clothes you wear can also help with your Armor Points. If your costume looks like it fits the IG atmosphere you will be able to wear more armor.
<p>The time that game begins will vary based on the chapter and the length of the event, but all weekend and longer events typically start between 9 pm and 11 pm Friday night. Prior to the start of game will be opening ceremonies where the weekend coordinators go over the chapter's policies, camp rules, and any plot information that would be known by all characters.
<p>It's Friday night and the town is buzzing. Guilds are having meetings, adventuring groups are planning strategy, the elves are having a ceremony, and the tavern is packed. Rumors of a zombie attack are floating about and the political situation doesn't look too secure. Life could be easier—but it could also be boring. You adjust your boots, make sure your dagger is handy, and start walking at a leisurely pace over to the tavern, but only get a few steps before something jumps out at you. It's a goblin! You can tell by the ugly green face. Goblins and other monsters are some of the Non-Player Characters in NERO. Members who want to play monsters get special benefits for that event but must do what the chapter hosting the event tells them.
<p>The goblin advances and swings his sword. You pull out your trusty dagger. Weapons in NERO are soft “boffer" weapons. They are basically PVC piping covered with foam rubber, with very soft ends. Injuries are very rare occurrences at NERO events—a game of little league baseball is more dangerous than a NERO combat. Players in NERO buy their equipment and weapons though we also provide instructions for making them. A dagger only does one point of damage while a long sword (which the goblin has) does two. The goblin knows this and smiles (or at least you think he does behind his goblin mask). What the goblin doesn't know is that one of the skills you bought with your Build Points is a Critical Attack which allows you to do an extra point of damage. The battle begins. Each of you calls out what damage you are doing so the other player can keep track. “Two Normal!" yells the goblin. “Two Normal!" you reply, using your Critical Attack in the hopes of finishing off the goblin before he finishes you!
<p>The goblin lunges at your chest, but you jump aside just at the last moment! As he passes by, you jab at his back with your dagger. “Ow!" screams the goblin. “Dat hurt! Me no like you!" You grin and swing out again, just to tease and torment the creature.
<p>He advances. “Me now teach you lesson!"
<p>With a lightning quick thrust, he swings at your chest. You try to block with your dagger, but fail to bring your weapon up in time to block the attack... Your now ruined shirt tells you that it might be a good idea to be a bit more careful with this foe.
<p>You make a mental note to find someone to teach you how to fight with a long sword as soon as possible.
<p>You now have both taken two points of damage. Since you've never fought a goblin before, you don't know how many total points he has. Will the next hit bring him down?
<p>“Give up, smelly human?"
<p>“Never!" you reply, jumping in and taking the foul creature by surprise. His yelp of pain as your dagger slices his chest is very satisfying.. .but he's still up!Perhaps running away might be a good option.
<p>The goblin senses your apprehension and follows with a flurry of attacks. You are able to block most of them, but one lands its target, cutting through your torn shirt and releasing a spray of blood. The goblin laughs triumphantly.
<p>That does it! This really sparks your anger and you lunge in like a mad man, hacking away at the green-skinned creature. This is more than he can take, and he falls to the ground. You stand there breathing heavily for a minute, and then you lean over him and search him.
<p>“I search you," you say. He hands you three silver pieces and a strange locked box he had on him.
<p>Now that the fight is over you must mark (by removing tags or marking your character skill sheet) that you've used a critical attack, and that you have taken four points of damage. You only have four Body Points left! Better find some healing before your next encounter.
<p>If you die either in battle or by execution, your character can then be resurrected. See the section of the rule book dealing with Death for more information on what happens when your character dies.
<p>You walk into the bustling tavern. Some local bards are playing quietly in a corner. As you look around the tavern you are surprised to see the local Baron himself, sitting with the Magistrate and the Sheriff! They seem to be arguing over something and it must be important given how many other people are sitting nearby trying to pretend they're not listening.You find a spot and sit. The gypsy tavern keeper dances over to you and brings you a drink for a silver piece. A woman sits nearby and pulls out a book and begins reading, by the glow of her hands, you can tell that she is a spell caster. You walk over. “Good evening," you say. “Might you be a healer?" “Yes I am," she replies. “I am Arcadia. Are you in need of help?"
<p>You tell her about your encounter with the goblin and ask if she can spare a Cure Light Wounds spell. She states that such a spell would cost three silver pieces.
<p>“I only have two," you reply, showing her your meager wealth. She glances at you and sighs. “Very well," she says. “I have to make a living, but I took an oath to help those in need. I will cure you, but you will owe me a favor in the future!"
<p>“Agreed," you reply, handing her the coins. She calls up her power and touches your shoulder.
<p>“I call upon the earth to cure light wounds 5" she says. A burst of warmth fills your body and you can feel the wound healing itself.
<p>You then have to adjust tags or mark your character skill sheet to reflect the fact that you have been healed and your missing body points have been restored.
<p>A warrior in chain mail then comes up to both of you. With her are a venerable mage and a rather shifty-looking individual. “Pardon me," she states, “but we were just wondering if you've heard anything about a goblin treasure map. We'd be willing to pay for information that proves to be true." You try not to show any reaction as she speaks about a rumor she had heard involving a map kept in a small box. Better find out more about these people before making any commitments. You introduce yourself and they do as well, and you all spend some time discussing your pasts and talking about other rumors and bits of decide information you have heard. You finally decide that they can be trusted and you suggest that you all go someplace where no one can overhear.
<p>You travel to the mage's cabin where you show the box to the shifty-eyed person, who turns out to be a “locksmith." He smiles at the challenge and pulls out his tools.
<p>In the world of NERO, real locks are used. Buying the required Pick Locks skill does not guarantee success; it only allows you to make the attempt at picking the lock. Likewise, boxes are really trapped with electronic buzzers or other noisemakers. To check for traps you must actually check the object for traps by carefully examining the object without accidentally setting off a trap you have not yet detected. Once you know a trap is present, you can then try to disarm or bypass the trap if you have the skill Disarm/Arm Trap. Depending on the state where a chapter is located, it may be against the law for you to possess any tools designed to pick a lock.
<p>In this case, the local chapter will use the Alternate Pick Locks rule, as described in the entry for the Pick Locks skill. The rogue picks the lock. Inside the box he finds a strange amulet, some coins, and a map written in a strange language! Tomorrow you will go to the Merchants' Guild to have your amulet appraised for its value. You will also go to the Mages' Guild and have it checked to see if it's magic! However, you and your new companions spend most of the night decoding the map. Outside, you can hear the sounds of battle as a lich has called forth his undead to destroy as much of the town as possible. You decide that the knights can handle it and wisely stay inside.
<p>After you decode the map, you find the small note at the bottom which says “See a marshal when you're ready to go on this adventure." You decide to rest for the night and start in the morning and you head to bed with visions of treasure and future adventures in your head!
<p>This is one way that a group may get into a weekend adventure module. Some modules are repeating in that more than one group can go through at different times, while others are one time only. The one time only modules may be major affairs, and can affect the whole storyline, or they may be modules that simply cannot be repeated (saving a coastal town from a ghost ship). You can see that a NERO adventure is like no other—the possibilities are endless for creative players. So welcome to NERO, where you can be all that you can't be!
<p>Multiple Characters
<p>Unless you are NPC'ing, you cannot play more than one character during an event (unless your character dies permanently and you start a new one). It is too confusing to other players – they will think you are playing the same PC but wearing different clothes. When you create a second character, please have that character be as different from your original character as possible: your new character should have a different adventuring party, different costume, and hopefully be of a different race and class as well. Multiple characters belonging to the same player may never directly interact in any way.
<p>Playtesting Rules
<p>Each NERO chapter abides by the rules listed in this book. Additionally, these rules can be modified and new rules added by official NERO play tests. The NERO International Office makes available an official list of rules that are being play tested on their website www.nerolarp.com. Each chapter must make available a list of the play tests that they are using, so that players attending events at a chapter can find out ahead of time which play tests will be in use.
<p>Be a Successful NERO Player
<p>Creating a believable and fun character history is a significant key to enjoying a NERO event. Knowing your character's persona can give you wide reaching role-playing possibilities. Written character histories are not required to play NERO but they will provide you with background and us with opportunities to give you plot.
<p>Once your history is finished, it should be submitted to your local Plot Committee for approval. They will use it to make your adventuring more interesting by tying your history into what you are doing now. 
<p>Understand, however, that the committee has the right to overrule your choices if they would violate game rules or give your character too much of an advantage in the game. After all, you can't just say that you're the son of a famous king with superhuman abilities and a million gold pieces and expect us to allow it. 
<p>Avoid the clichés common in so many fantasy films and literature. And that includes thinking of a name for your character. Although we have yet to see a Conan or a Bilbo Baggins, we have had our share of Vlad Taltos, Rand al'Thors, Belgarions, Elrics, and Skeeves. What, do you think you're the only person in the world to have read these books?
<p>Be creative in your ideas and your presentation! Some players have written their character histories as letters to family, interviews or even once a confession after being caught stealing, explaining why the person was a thief! Use your imagination!
<p>Here is an example of an unimaginative (and all too common) character history. Please do not send us something that reads like this:
<p>My name is Deathbringer Bloodblade Darkshadow. My father was a Count and my mother was the heir to the throne of the Elven Kingdom. When I was but a baby, my parents were killed by a marauding group of bandits from Rotaria who left me and my twin brother to die. They captured my beautiful sister and sold her to Eastern barbarians where she now serves in the harem of their evil leader Konad. My brother was later kidnapped by gypsies and I had to fend for myself. I proved my worth and strength at an early age when I killed an armed troll with my bare hands.
<p>I taught myself to be the best swordsman in the kingdom. However, I keep my abilities secret as I do not wish for my enemies to find me. I now travel mysteriously from town to town, dressed all in black. I appear without a sound and disappear as a mere shadow flicking through the night. When I enter the tavern, the crowd grows silent as
<p>I sit alone in the corner with my back to the wall. I do not have many friends but I do have the respect of all. Although I do not seek permanent female companionship, I secretly enjoy the lavish attention that the women give me. I search for my long-lost brother who I know can help me regain my birthright, rescue my sister and wreak my vengeance against any Rotarian I come across. I will be able to recognize him and my sister by our distinctive family birthmark—a scarlet rose on our left elbow.
<p>Oh yeah, I am also searching for my father's sword Doomblade which will only work for members of my family. This sword was created by the finest dwarven craftsmen specifically for my father after he single-handedly saved the dwarven kingdom from the attacking hordes of mountain trolls and death elementals that once plagued the peaceful people. This sword allows me to double any proficiencies I may already have (Plot committee: Can I have this?).
<p>Although I have often been asked to join with other adventuring groups, I keep to myself and to mine own self I am true. I do adventure from time to time when the cause is worthy.
<p>There are lots of problems with this history - first of all, it contains every hackneyed cliché overused in bad literature of this type. One or two may have been acceptable, but this is ridiculous. (And who names their kids Deathbringer Bloodblade Darkshadow, anyway?) Secondly, and perhaps more importantly, if this person has done all of these great heroic things, then why in the world is he entering game as a lowly second level character? 
<p>Most character histories that are rejected fail because of that reason. Players write histories naming themselves as great heroes who can cast amazing spells and have written great learned treatises or have killed great monsters, but as a starting player in our game, they can't afford to buy Read and Write or Weapon Proficiencies. What, did your character forget everything all of a sudden?
<p>A well fleshed-out and detailed character history need not be filled with adventure and excitement. Its primary purpose should be to establish your character's  personality - why does your character act and feel the way he or she does? 
<p>Think about your own life as a guideline. What is it in your past that has made you what you are today? What is your family like? Your schooling? Your friends? The types of places you have lived? Your jobs? After all, every experience you have shapes your personality.
<p>Here is an example of a good character history:
<p>My name is Trin Hallison. I am the eldest son of Lorin and Frinda Hallison. I have two younger brothers and two older sisters. I was born in the mining city of Ironvale in the duchy of Ravenholt in the kingdom of Evendarr in 576. My father was the head cook of one of the mines in the area and my mother worked in the payroll department.
<p>They held different shifts so that at different times I was raised by both my father and my mother. 
<p>My father had served in the army of Westmarch under Goodwyn Northridge as a short swordsman I have many fine memories of afternoons spent with my father practicing sparring - I never could beat him! (I could, however, beat my younger brothers and sisters, and I gained even more experience playing with them). My mother knew a
<p>few healing spells which came in handy when we kids hurt ourselves in our games. She tried to teach us to read and write, but only my sister Burra took an interest.
<p>At the young age of ten, while on a picnic with my family, I found a cave and began exploring. I soon was lost in the darkness and I was certain that every sound was a goblin or a troll out to get me. I spent a few hours crying in the darkness before I was discovered and ever since I have had a great fear of caves and extreme darkness even though I know my fears are unfounded. When Vandal Northridge became Baron of Westmarch, things changed a bit in Ironvale - the town guards became surlier and some of the nobles he appointed cared more for fattening their pockets than for the commoners whom they were supposed to be helping. I believe that all nobles in their hearts are the same even if they pretend to be caring. I would never work for nobility. When I was old enough, I became apprenticed to a local cooper, making barrels for the town. It was boring work but it brought in the money my family needed. It was during this time that I became fascinated with magic, for next door to the coopers' was the local Healers' Guild.
<p>The healers there noticed my interest in their activities, and one - a nice old lady named Hindy - often delighted me with her tales of adventures in Ashbury where she had fought many monsters in her younger days. 
<p>It was she who finally taught me how to perform first aid, and it was she who taught me my first spell.
<p>My father died permanently when I was 14. It was a very traumatic experience for all of my family. He had died previously—a few times while in the army and once when a large boulder fell on him, but he had been successfully resurrected each time. This time he had a terrible disease, and the Healers' Guild could do nothing for him. I cried myself to sleep every night as he lay in bed in pain as the disease took over his body.
<p>Finally, I could take no more, and I placed a pillow over his head and held it down until he stopped breathing. I finally put him out of his misery. I have never told anyone of this and I feel very guilty about it. I made a vow to myself that I would never kill again, and that any enemy I would ever encounter would be captured if at all possible, and if dying would be first-aided.
<p>When I turned 16, I felt that it was time to strike out on my own, and I decided to head to the area that Hindy had told me about. I decided to move to the big city where life is more exciting.
<p>I have now arrived in the city of Ashbury, where I hope soon to obtain a job and maybe - just maybe - find some adventure!
<p>Notice how this history establishes a few character traits with which the player can have lots of fun—a dislike and mistrust of nobility, a fear of enclosed spaces and darkness, and a desire never to kill. Imagine the complications in game when his views and desires run up against situations which require him to confront his fears. 
<p>This history also explains how he got the skills with which he will be entering the game: One Handed Edged, Healing Arts, First Aid, Read and Write, and a spell.
<p>If your character is older, you may have to think of a reason why your character is only second level. For example, perhaps you have been a farmer or a trapper for many years and now you have been kicked out of the family / evicted from your farm / mistreated by an evil bad guy / stirred into action by some injustice and now after all those years have decided to become an adventurer.
<p>So go to it! Write an interesting character history and see how much more fun NERO will become.

Character Profile
Use these questions as a way to help “flesh out" your character history: 
	Where and when were you born? 
	Are you aware of your parent's names? If so, what are they? 
	What were their occupations? 
	Do you know if they are alive or dead? 
	If they are dead, how did they die?
	
Family: 
	Do you have any siblings? 
	Are you aware of them, and if so, how did you get along as children? 
	Do you know where they are now, and if so, how do you get along now? 
	Where are your siblings and what are they like?

Your Past: 
	What was your childhood like? 
	What were your parents' childhoods like? 
	Where, how, and from whom did you learn your trade?

Ambitions: 
	What do you want out of life? 
	What are your personal goals and ambitions? 
	Is there anything about your life that you would change? 
	What tempts you? 
	Do you have any phobias? 
	Do you have any superstitions?

Profession: 
	Are you an adventurer, and if so, why? 
	What would cause you to give up adventuring? 
	Do you have any close friends? 
	Do you have any enemies? 

Opinions: 
	What is your attitude about fighting and killing? 
	How about mercenaries? 
	What is your attitude about magic? 
	How about mages? What do you think about necromancy? 
	Do you think it is wrong to cast necromantic spells? 
	What is your attitude towards theft and thieves in general? 
	How about someone in your group who steals? 
	How about someone who steals from your group, especially if they are a member? 
	What is your opinion about Good and Evil? What is your attitude towards the law? 
	How do you feel about nobility? 
	What are your future plans?
